Ch3_Linear_Regression/README.md, before:

# Chapter 3: Linear Regression 
---

This chapter is about linear regression, a very simple, yet powerful, approach to supervised learning for predicting a quantitative respone. In this chapter, we review some key ideas underlying the linear regression model, as well as the <strong>least squares</strong> approach, that is commonly used to <strong>fit</strong> a model. 

## 3.1 Simple Linear Regression 
SLR lives up to its name: it's a straightforward approach for predicting a response <strong>$Y$</strong> on the basis of a <strong>single</strong> predictor $X$. We assume there is approximately a linear relationship between the two. Mathematically it's written as: <br>
 $$
\begin{equation}
  Y \approx \beta_0 + \beta_1X
\label{eq:SLR}
\tag{3.1}
\end{equation}
$$
"$\approx$" is read as approximately. We use it because of the error associated to predicting $Y$. <br> We can describe (3.1) by saying that we are regressing $Y$ onto $X$. For example, $X$ may represent TV ads and $Y$ represents sales. <br>
 $$
\begin{equation}
  sales \approx \beta_0 + \beta_1TV
\label{eq:sales}
\
\end{equation}
$$ <br>

In (3.1), $\beta_0$ and $\beta_1$ are two <strong>unkown</strong> constants that represent the *intercept* and *slope* terms in the linear model. They're known as *coefficients* or *parameters*. <br>
We use our **training data** to produce $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ for the **model** coefficients. We use this model to predict future sales based on a particular TV ad by computing: <br>

$$
\begin{equation}
 \widehat{y}  = \hat{\beta_0} + \hat{\beta_1}x
\label{eq:model1}
\tag{3.2}
\end{equation}
$$ 
<br>
Where $\widehat{y}$ indicates a prediction of $Y$ on the basis of $X$ = $x$. The *hat* symbol, $\widehat{}$,  denotes the estimated value for an unknown parameter or coefficient, or the predicted value of the response.

 
### 3.1.1 Estimating the Coefficients
In practice $\beta_0$ and $\beta_1$ are unknown. We therefore must use the data to estimate those two. <br>
Let n observation pairs:
$$(x_1, y1_1), (x_2, y_2)...,(x_n,y_n)$$ <br>
The advertising data has n = 200. In other words, for every market in the 200 markets we have a TV budget and the product sales. Our goal here is to obtain the estimate coefficients $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ for a line which is the **closest** to all the 200 data points. Take a look at what that line would look like: 

<p align="center">
  <img width="400" height="300" src=images/ad_data.png>
</p>
<br>
So that for every $i$-*th* observation in the dataset:
$$
\begin{equation}
 y_i  \approx \hat{\beta_0} + \hat{\beta_1}x_i
\label{eq:ith}
\
\end{equation}
$$ 

By far the most common approach to measure closeness invovles minimizing the *least squares* criterion. Other approaches are discussed in Chapter 6. <br>
The fit is found by minimizing the sum of squared errors. Every grey line in the figure is an error and a 'compromise' is reached by averaging their squares. 
Ok, time for some fun! <br>
let $\hat{y_i} = \hat{\beta_0} + \hat{\beta_1}x_i$ the prediction of $Y$ based on $i$th value of $X$. Then $e_i = y_i - \hat{y_i}$ which is the *residual* - or in other words, the difference between the actual value and the predicted one usiong our linear model. The *residual sum of squares* (RSS) is then <br>
$$RSS = e^2_1 + e^2_2 + ... + e^2_n$$
Orrrr
$$
RSS = (y_1 - \hat{\beta_0} - \hat{\beta_1}x_1)^2 + (y_2 - \hat{\beta_0} - \hat{\beta_1}x_2)^2 + ... + (y_n - \hat{\beta_0} - \hat{\beta_1}x_n)^2
$$
The *least squares* chooses $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ which minimizes the $RSS$. Using calculus one can prove: <br>

$$\hat{\beta_1} = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})(y_i - \bar{y})}{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})^2}
,$$ $\tag{3.4}$

$$\hat{\beta_0} = \bar{y} - \hat{\beta_1}\bar{x},$$


### 3.1.2 Assessing the Accuracy of the Coefficient Estimates
In chapter 2 we assumed a true relationship between $X$ and $Y$ in the form $Y = f(X) + \epsilon$ for some unkown $f$, where $\epsilon$ is mean-zero random error term. If we were to approximate $f$ by a linear function then the relationship is
$$Y = \beta_0 + \beta_1X + \epsilon \tag{3.5}$$
Equation (3.5) is the *population regression line* which is the best linear approx to the true relationship. 
The term $\epsilon$ is a catch-all for what we miss with this simple model. Since the true relationship is probably not linear, and there may be other variables that cause variation in $Y$. $\epsilon$ is typically independent of $X$. <br>
At first the difference between the population regression line and the least squares line may be subtle and confusing. In practice we don't have access to the first and we are interested in estimating the latter. <br>
Suppose we are interested in computing the mean $\mu$ of some random variable $Y$. Using the n observations we have access to we can estimate $\mu$. A resonable estimate is $\widehat{\mu}$ = $\bar{y}$ where $\bar{y}$ is the sample mean. The sample will give us a good estimate of the population mean. In the same way, $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ will give us a good estimate to the coefficients $\beta_0$ and $\beta_1$ in the population regression line. <br>
The analogy between linear regression and estimation of the mean is an apt one based on the concept of *bias*. On **avergae** we expect $\widehat{\mu}$ to equal $\mu$. That is to say, it can on occasions underestimate or overestimate the population mean. But a huge number of sample means would *exactly* equal the population mean. We say $\widehat{\mu}$ is an *unbiased* estimator of $\mu$. This property of unbiasedness holds also tru for our least squares coefficient estimates. If we could average estimates obtained over a huge number of datasets, then the average would be spot on!
<br>
So, how accurately does a single $\widehat{\mu}$ estimate $\mu$? In general, this is answered by computing the *standard error* of $\widehat{\mu}$. The well-known formula 
$$Var(\widehat{\mu}) = SE(\widehat{\mu})^2 = \frac{\sigma^2}{n}
,\tag{3.7}$$

The standard error reflects the amount by which an estimator varies under repeated sampling. Similarely we can compute:

$$SE(\hat{\beta_0})^2 = {\sigma}^2[\frac{1}{n}+\frac{\bar{x}^2}{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})^2}],$$

$\tag{3.8}$


$$SE(\hat{\beta_1})^2 = \frac{\sigma^2}{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})^2},$$

$\sigma^2$ is unkown, but can be estimated from the data. The estimate of $\sigma$ is known as the *residual standard error* and is given be the formula
$$RSE = \sqrt{RSS/(n-2)}$$
Strictly speaking, when $\sigma^2$ is estimated we should write $\widehat{SE}(\hat{\beta_1})^2$ to indicate an estimation has taken place but for simplicity we will drop the hat here. 


### 3.1.3 Assessing the Accuracy of the Model

## 3.2 Multiple Linear Regression 
### 3.2.1 Estimating the Regression Coefficients 
### 3.2.2 Some Important Questions

## 3.3 Other Considerations in the Regression Model 
### 3.3.1 Qualitative Predictors 
### 3.3.2 Extensions of the Linear Model 
### 3.3.3 Potential Problems 
## 3.5 Comparison of Linear Regression with K-Nearest Neighbors

Commit message:

confidence intervals for beta 0 and beta 1 formulas

Ch3_Linear_Regression/README.md, after:

# Chapter 3: Linear Regression 
---

This chapter is about linear regression, a very simple, yet powerful, approach to supervised learning for predicting a quantitative respone. In this chapter, we review some key ideas underlying the linear regression model, as well as the <strong>least squares</strong> approach, that is commonly used to <strong>fit</strong> a model. 

## 3.1 Simple Linear Regression 
SLR lives up to its name: it's a straightforward approach for predicting a response <strong>$Y$</strong> on the basis of a <strong>single</strong> predictor $X$. We assume there is approximately a linear relationship between the two. Mathematically it's written as: <br>
 $$
\begin{equation}
  Y \approx \beta_0 + \beta_1X
\label{eq:SLR}
\tag{3.1}
\end{equation}
$$
"$\approx$" is read as approximately. We use it because of the error associated to predicting $Y$. <br> We can describe (3.1) by saying that we are regressing $Y$ onto $X$. For example, $X$ may represent TV ads and $Y$ represents sales. <br>
 $$
\begin{equation}
  sales \approx \beta_0 + \beta_1TV
\label{eq:sales}
\
\end{equation}
$$ <br>

In (3.1), $\beta_0$ and $\beta_1$ are two <strong>unkown</strong> constants that represent the *intercept* and *slope* terms in the linear model. They're known as *coefficients* or *parameters*. <br>
We use our **training data** to produce $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ for the **model** coefficients. We use this model to predict future sales based on a particular TV ad by computing: <br>

$$
\begin{equation}
 \widehat{y}  = \hat{\beta_0} + \hat{\beta_1}x
\label{eq:model1}
\tag{3.2}
\end{equation}
$$ 
<br>
Where $\widehat{y}$ indicates a prediction of $Y$ on the basis of $X$ = $x$. The *hat* symbol, $\widehat{}$,  denotes the estimated value for an unknown parameter or coefficient, or the predicted value of the response.

 
### 3.1.1 Estimating the Coefficients
In practice $\beta_0$ and $\beta_1$ are unknown. We therefore must use the data to estimate those two. <br>
Let n observation pairs:
$$(x_1, y1_1), (x_2, y_2)...,(x_n,y_n)$$ <br>
The advertising data has n = 200. In other words, for every market in the 200 markets we have a TV budget and the product sales. Our goal here is to obtain the estimate coefficients $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ for a line which is the **closest** to all the 200 data points. Take a look at what that line would look like: 

<p align="center">
  <img width="400" height="300" src=images/ad_data.png>
</p>
<br>
So that for every $i$-*th* observation in the dataset:
$$
\begin{equation}
 y_i  \approx \hat{\beta_0} + \hat{\beta_1}x_i
\label{eq:ith}
\
\end{equation}
$$ 

By far the most common approach to measure closeness invovles minimizing the *least squares* criterion. Other approaches are discussed in Chapter 6. <br>
The fit is found by minimizing the sum of squared errors. Every grey line in the figure is an error and a 'compromise' is reached by averaging their squares. 
Ok, time for some fun! <br>
let $\hat{y_i} = \hat{\beta_0} + \hat{\beta_1}x_i$ the prediction of $Y$ based on $i$th value of $X$. Then $e_i = y_i - \hat{y_i}$ which is the *residual* - or in other words, the difference between the actual value and the predicted one usiong our linear model. The *residual sum of squares* (RSS) is then <br>
$$RSS = e^2_1 + e^2_2 + ... + e^2_n$$
Orrrr
$$
RSS = (y_1 - \hat{\beta_0} - \hat{\beta_1}x_1)^2 + (y_2 - \hat{\beta_0} - \hat{\beta_1}x_2)^2 + ... + (y_n - \hat{\beta_0} - \hat{\beta_1}x_n)^2
$$
The *least squares* chooses $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ which minimizes the $RSS$. Using calculus one can prove: <br>

$$\hat{\beta_1} = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})(y_i - \bar{y})}{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})^2}
,$$ $\tag{3.4}$

$$\hat{\beta_0} = \bar{y} - \hat{\beta_1}\bar{x},$$


### 3.1.2 Assessing the Accuracy of the Coefficient Estimates
In chapter 2 we assumed a true relationship between $X$ and $Y$ in the form $Y = f(X) + \epsilon$ for some unkown $f$, where $\epsilon$ is mean-zero random error term. If we were to approximate $f$ by a linear function then the relationship is
$$Y = \beta_0 + \beta_1X + \epsilon \tag{3.5}$$
Equation (3.5) is the *population regression line* which is the best linear approx to the true relationship. 
The term $\epsilon$ is a catch-all for what we miss with this simple model. Since the true relationship is probably not linear, and there may be other variables that cause variation in $Y$. $\epsilon$ is typically independent of $X$. <br>
At first the difference between the population regression line and the least squares line may be subtle and confusing. In practice we don't have access to the first and we are interested in estimating the latter. <br>
Suppose we are interested in computing the mean $\mu$ of some random variable $Y$. Using the n observations we have access to we can estimate $\mu$. A resonable estimate is $\widehat{\mu}$ = $\bar{y}$ where $\bar{y}$ is the sample mean. The sample will give us a good estimate of the population mean. In the same way, $\hat{\beta_0}$ and $\hat{\beta_1}$ will give us a good estimate to the coefficients $\beta_0$ and $\beta_1$ in the population regression line. <br>
The analogy between linear regression and estimation of the mean is an apt one based on the concept of *bias*. On **avergae** we expect $\widehat{\mu}$ to equal $\mu$. That is to say, it can on occasions underestimate or overestimate the population mean. But a huge number of sample means would *exactly* equal the population mean. We say $\widehat{\mu}$ is an *unbiased* estimator of $\mu$. This property of unbiasedness holds also tru for our least squares coefficient estimates. If we could average estimates obtained over a huge number of datasets, then the average would be spot on!
<br>
So, how accurately does a single $\widehat{\mu}$ estimate $\mu$? In general, this is answered by computing the *standard error* of $\widehat{\mu}$. The well-known formula 
$$Var(\widehat{\mu}) = SE(\widehat{\mu})^2 = \frac{\sigma^2}{n}
,\tag{3.7}$$

The standard error reflects the amount by which an estimator varies under repeated sampling. Similarely we can compute:

$$SE(\hat{\beta_0})^2 = {\sigma}^2[\frac{1}{n}+\frac{\bar{x}^2}{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})^2}],$$

$\tag{3.8}$


$$SE(\hat{\beta_1})^2 = \frac{\sigma^2}{\sum_{i=1}^{n} (x_i - \bar{x})^2},$$

$\sigma^2$ is unkown, but can be estimated from the data. The estimate of $\sigma$ is known as the *residual standard error* and is given be the formula
$$RSE = \sqrt{RSS/(n-2)}$$
Strictly speaking, when $\sigma^2$ is estimated we should write $\widehat{SE}(\hat{\beta_1})^2$ to indicate an estimation has taken place but for simplicity we will drop the hat here. 
Standard errors can be used to compute **confidence intervals**. A 95% confidence interval is defined as a range of values such that with 0.95 probability, the range will contain the true value unknown value of the parameter. It has lower and upper limits computed from the sample data. <br> 
For linear regression, the 95% confidence intervals for the values $\beta_1$ and $\beta_0$ take the following forms

$$\hat{\beta_1} \pm 2 \cdot SE(\hat{\beta_1}) \tag{3.9}$$ 

Also can be written
$$[\hat{\beta_1} - 2 \cdot SE(\hat{\beta_1}),  \hat{\beta_1} + 2 \cdot SE(\hat{\beta_1})] \tag{3.10}$$

Similarly
$$\hat{\beta_0} \pm 2 \cdot SE(\hat{\beta_0}) \tag{3.11}$$


### 3.1.3 Assessing the Accuracy of the Model

## 3.2 Multiple Linear Regression 
### 3.2.1 Estimating the Regression Coefficients 
### 3.2.2 Some Important Questions

## 3.3 Other Considerations in the Regression Model 
### 3.3.1 Qualitative Predictors 
### 3.3.2 Extensions of the Linear Model 
### 3.3.3 Potential Problems 
## 3.5 Comparison of Linear Regression with K-Nearest Neighbors
